The purpose of this project is to build a simple CLI tool built in Golang, the purpose of which will be for high performance filtering and formatting of structured JSON log files produced by tools like PM2. It will be used primarily by AI coding agents when they're exploring problems with locally running systems. These systems always use PM2 with structured outputs but PM2 might also have auto rotation turned on. Also the log files could be quite large so we need to keep performance in mind. The main command of this tool will take a couple of parameters. It might take a date filter. That date filter could be last 10 minutes, last 30 minutes, last 60 seconds or it could be an absolute before and after timestamp. It will also take an app name so we know which app to filter for in the log lines. What the tool will then do is it will read the, it will look at all the files in the log directory. It will then work out which files it needs to read in. Bear in mind there might be multiple files per app and log rotation might be turned on. My suggestion would be to read the first and last line of each file to understand what the time bounds are and which app it is, which app that log file applies to.

once the app has figured out which files to read, it will then read in the required files. It will filter by the timestamp and the app type, and then what it will do is it will unwrap the nested JSON message, as said, presumed that all of these logs are JSON. It will unwrap the JSON message, it will pass that as JSON, it will add back the timestamp from the parent field, if the nested field doesn't already have a timestamp field, and then it will output that to standard out as nice JSON. I also think we could potentially walk through that JSON tree to find any other instances of nested JSON, because sometimes there are use cases where an app is outputting logs from the browser, which are themselves JSON, so there could be two levels of JSON nesting. So maybe we look for at most two levels of JSON nesting across all messages, and then unwrap that JSON and then output to standard out as JSON. The client using the tool will then likely use things like JQ or DuckDB to do additional filtering, but I just want this tool for now to focus on that initial filtering and format matting aspect.

For development purposes, I have copied into this project folder a folder that contains real PM2 logs from a live application. So we've got good training data. We want to ensure high test coverage, use test driven development, including integration and end to end tests. We could also have some end to end tests that actually build the binary and then run it from the CLI to make sure everything was as expected. The tool should also be self documenting, meaning that the sort of documentation strings that the tool outputs should give the AI all of the information it needs to be able to use this effectively.
i
Read https://clig.dev/ to get an idea of how to build a nice cli interface, but dont overbuild - just focus on what we need to make this a nice, simple, self contained tool. This tool should always outuput json, not text.~
